---
title: "8 Nutrition Practices to Avoid (If You Actually Wanted to Make Progress)"
date: 2023-05-23T19:01:43-04:00
draft: true
image: "/images/blogphoto3.jpg"
author: Bryce Hamilton
tags:
categories:
---
If you're serious about actually making progress and achieving sustainable results for your health and overall well-being, then it's crucial to be aware of the pitfalls that lie ahead. In the realm of modern diet culture, there are certain approaches that may promise quick results on the scale, but beware! These seemingly enticing strategies can actually wreck your metabolism and lead to an increase in body fat percentage over the long haul. That’s why we wanted to share with you these 8 common nutrition practices to avoid and what to do instead. So, fasten your seatbelts as we navigate through the treacherous terrain of misguided strategies, ensuring that your journey to a healthier, happier you is on the right track.
#### Avoid a Low Carb Diet
Here's why slashing carbs may not be the most suitable choice for you. You see, carbohydrates play a vital role in reducing those pesky cortisol levels that tend to skyrocket during stressful times. By incorporating healthy carbs into your diet, you can help keep cortisol in check and say goodbye to that constant low-level stress that's been weighing you down. But that's not all! Carbs also happen to be your body's preferred fuel source for both physical and mental performance. So, instead of shying away from carbs, we encourage you to embrace them as an ally in your journey towards overall well-being. Use carbs to fuel your body and mind with the energy they need to thrive!
#### Avoid Restrictive Meal Plans or Diets
When it comes to finding the right diet for you, flexibility and adaptability are key. Let go of restrictive meal plans and diets that leave you feeling overwhelmed. What you need is a balanced and realistic approach that stands the test of time. Quick fixes may promise instant results, but they rarely deliver lasting change. Working towards sustainable habits that truly make a difference is the goal. It's all about building a positive relationship with food, empowering you to make healthier choices without feeling deprived.
#### Avoid Excessive HIIT Cardio
If you're constantly relying on high-intensity interval training (HIIT) cardio, you may need to reconsider your approach. While it can be tempting to go all-out on cardio, it actually adds to your stress levels. HIIT cardio increases cortisol, which only adds fuel to the fire and can lead to burnout. Here’s a better alternative. Shift your focus to strength training and performance-based workouts. Not only will these exercises improve your physical abilities, but they will also make you more resilient to stress. By finding the perfect balance between cardiovascular exercise and strength training, you'll achieve better and more sustainable results.
#### Avoid Lengthy Fitness Programs
Avoid fitness programs that demand more than 45-60 minutes per session. You don't need to dedicate extensive hours at the gym to achieve your desired metabolic boost and physical transformation. Instead, focus on efficient workouts that make the most of your time, enabling you to strike a balance between your fitness goals and other important aspects of your life. Prioritizing effectiveness and efficiency will help you make the most of your limited time while achieving the results you desire.
#### Avoid a Low Protein Diet
Protein plays a crucial role in building and repairing muscles, boosting metabolism, keeping you feeling satisfied, and maintaining your overall well-being. Stay away from low protein diets that can leave you feeling depleted and low on energy. Instead, focus on consuming sufficient protein from a variety of sources such as lean meats, poultry, fish, eggs, dairy, legumes, and plant-based proteins. By incorporating adequate protein into your diet, you can support your body's needs and enhance your overall health and vitality.
#### Do Not Underestimate the Power of Quality Sleep
Sleep is often overlooked, but it's important to understand its significance in your overall well-being. Neglecting quality sleep can worsen stress levels and impede your progress. It's essential to prioritize sleep as a fundamental pillar of your health. By establishing healthy sleep habits and routines, you can experience accelerated progress, improved mental health, increased energy levels, and enhanced productivity. Make sleep a priority and reap the benefits it brings to your overall well-being.
#### Avoid “Busy” Work
You may feel compelled to push yourself to the limit with extra workouts. However, it's important to recognize that this approach can lead to burnout and hinder your progress. Instead, I urge you to avoid overtraining and understand the value of working out smarter, not harder. Finding a balance that allows for sufficient recovery and prevents unnecessary strain on your body and mind is key. By taking a measured and sustainable approach to your workload, you can achieve better results and maintain your overall well-being.
#### Delay Intuitive Eating
It's important to consider that while intuitive eating is a commendable goal, it may not be the best approach for individuals dealing with high levels of stress. Stress can interfere with hunger cues, causing erratic eating patterns and potential bingeing. Instead, I encourage you to prioritize structure and mindful eating practices initially. By establishing a foundation of healthy habits and managing stress, you can develop a better relationship with food. As you progress and improve your overall well-being, the transition to intuitive eating can be made gradually and when it feels more natural and sustainable for you.
#
If you're a busy and stressed individual looking for nutrition guidance, it's important to steer clear of certain approaches that can add unnecessary stress and impede your progress. Avoiding a low carb diet, restrictive meal plans, excessive HIIT cardio, lengthy fitness programs, low protein diets, neglecting quality sleep, excessive workouts, and premature intuitive eating can set you on a path towards effective and sustainable results. By finding a balance between your nutrition goals and your busy lifestyle, you can receive the support you need to improve your health and well-being.
#
Are you feeling overwhelmed by conflicting nutrition advice and struggling to find a sustainable plan that suits your busy lifestyle? We understand the importance of personalized approaches that prioritize your overall well-being. We work hard to guide you towards a balanced and realistic nutrition plan, helping you make lasting changes that fit seamlessly into your life. We work with our clients to avoid common pitfalls like restrictive diets, excessive workouts, and neglecting quality sleep, while focusing on building a positive relationship with food and developing healthy habits. Don't let conflicting information hinder your progress. Reach out to Holistic Habits Coaching today and take the first step towards a healthier, happier you. Click the link below!